# NootedRed

The AMD iGPU kernel extension.

::alert{type="danger"}
:icon{name="IconError"} Due to a Lilu bug, NootedRed cannot be used in recovery or during upgrades due to a misdetection causing a stall at the last stage.
For now, have NootedRed enabled only after completing install or update.
::

## iGPU compatibility

The entire Vega Raven ASIC family (`Ryzen 1xxx (Athlon Silver/Gold)` to `5xxx`, and `7x30` series).

## macOS compatibility

`macOS 10.15` to `macOS 14`. Don't request any lower macOS version; it's not possible to go below `10.15` as the iGPU logic was introduced in that version, and in lower macOS versions there's no RDNA code (used for DCN and VCN).

## Prerequisites

::list{type="warning"}
- Your system must not have a `GCN 5` or `RDNA` AMD dGPU.
:::list{type="success"}
  - They can be disabled using the `-wegnoegpu` boot arg or the `disable-gpu` device property.
:::
::
::list{type="danger"}
- Increase VRAM size.
:::list{type="info"}
  - `512MiB` minimum, `1GiB+` for proper functionality.
:::
::
::list{type="danger"}
- Disable Legacy Boot, also known as CSM and Boot Mode.
:::list{type="info"}
  - Otherwise you will meet kernel panics like `Failed to get VBIOS from VRAM`.
:::
::
::list{type="danger"}
- Remove `WhateverGreen.kext`.
:::list{type="info"}
  - NootedRed conflicts with it.
:::
::
::list{type="info"}
- Use `MacBookPro16,3`, `iMac20,1` or `iMacPro1,1` SMBIOS.
:::list{type="warning"}
  - `MacPro7,1` might result in a black screen.
:::
::
::list{type="info"}
- Do your macOS updates (the minor ones, not necessary to go e.g. `macOS 11` -> `macOS 12`).
::

## Backlight functionality

Usually only works on laptops.

::list
- [`SSDT-PNLF.aml`](/Extras/SSDTs/SSDT-PNLF.aml){target="_blank"}
- [`SSDT-ALS0.aml`](/Extras/SSDTs/SSDT-ALS0.aml){target="_blank"} if you have no Ambient Light Sensor
- [`SMCLightSensor.kext`](https://github.com/Acidanthera/VirtualSMC){target="_blank"}
- [`BrightnessKeys.kext`](https://github.com/Acidanthera/BrightnessKeys){target="_blank"} for keyboard brightness control (some vendors might require custom SMC kexts)
::

## Frequently asked questions

These entries are not in any particular order.

### Why's development not as active now?

Visual is overwhelmed, as he is the one and only developer of this kext and has his own life to attend.

There were several problems caused by two previous members of our team and they had to be removed.

In addition, this is a hobby.

### What happened to the commit history? Weren't there like a thousand commits before, spanning across several years?

As mentioned previously, the "controversy" with those two ex-team-members. They didn't contribute much to the project and it was deemed that they should not gain publicity from it.

### I get stuck on a black screen or restart after black screen on Catalina

Update the kext. If still getting a black screen right before the Setup Assistant, force restart and it should fix itself.

### My external display's audio appears, but no audio comes out of it

Known issue. We don't know the problem yet; it works on most systems. You'll have to be patient for now (again).

### My HDR-enabled display boots to a black screen with flashing backlight

Disable HDR either from the BIOS, a tool like `Smokeless-UMAF` or by connecting to the computer remotely and doing it from macOS' settings.

### My OLED display cannot have its brightness adjusted

Update the kext, some code has been added to support this. If still not working, please contact us on Telegram.

### I cannot adjust my brightness on Catalina

Update the kext, code was added which adds brightness control to Catalina.

### Chrome, Chromium-based browsers and apps like Sublime Text cause graphical artefacts amongst other problems

Known issue, but unknown cause.

For the browsers you can disable `GPU Rasterisation` inside `chrome://flags` as a workaround or just use Safari.

Anything else will likely require disabling GPU/Hardware acceleration.

If you can't even open the (chromium-based) browser because of the issue, you can launch it like in the following terminal command

```sh
open -a Google\ Chrome --args --disable-gpu
```

### Constant freezes and crashes on Sonoma

Cause of the compute dysfunctionality remains unknown. Latest commit should have minimal issues, as long as you have a static image as your background and no Memoji as the acount avatar.

### Do I just drag and drop this kext and we're good?

Yes, as long as you've done the prerequisites as described [here](#prerequisites).

### My brightness control is not working

I am guessing you're on Raven/Picasso/etc (1xxx-3xxx series). If so, then this is a known issue with no fix for now. Just be patient, this is a hobby project.
