# Compatibility

MacOS has numerous hardware limitations due to the limited amount of hardware Apple supports, so we're limited by Apple and patches the community has created.

## CPU Support

AMD Bulldozer (15h) and newer CPUs are supported with the [AMD Vanilla](https://github.com/AMD-OSX/AMD_Vanilla) patches.

::alert{type="warning"}
:icon{name="tabler:alert-triangle"} The patches are supported only since High Sierra, older versions require a custom Kernel. This configuration is unsupported by this guide.
::

::alert{type="info"}
:icon{name="tabler:info-circle"} AMD Laptops CPUs are more or less the same as AMD Desktop CPUs
::

::alert{type="danger"}
:icon{name="tabler:alert-circle"} A few things in macOS don't work properly with an AMD CPU, see below
::

::callout{type="warning"}
#summary
CPU requirements

#content
Architecture Requirements

::list{type="info"}
- x86_64/AMD64 (64-bit) CPUs are supported since Mac OS X 10.4.1
::

SSE Requirements

::list{type="info"}
- SSE3 is required for all Intel versions of Mac OS X/macOS
- SSSE3 is required for all 64-bit versions of Mac OS X/macOS
::
::list{type="warning"}
- SSE4 is required for macOS 10.12 up to, not including, 10.14
- macOS 10.14+, and newer AMD GPU drivers require SSE4.2. Avoid SSE4.1 CPUs if possible. May work with some hacks; see [Gathering Files > Kexts](/guide/gathering-files/kexts)
::
::

::callout{type="danger"}
#summary
AMD CPU incompatibilities

#content
Unfortunately many features in macOS are unsupported with AMD, with many others being partially broken. These include:

Virtual Machines relying on AppleHV
::list{type="danger"}
- This includes VirtualBox, VMWare, Parallels, Docker, Android Studio, etc.
::
::list{type="info"}
- VirtualBox versions older than 7.0, VMware 10 and Parallels 13.1.0 do support their own hypervisor, however using such outdated VM software poses a large security threat
::
Adobe Support
::list{type="danger"}
- Most of Adobe's suite relies on Intel's Memfast instruction set, resulting in crashes with AMD CPUs
::
::list{type="info"}
- You can disable functionality like RAW support to avoid the crashing: [Adobe Fixes](https://gist.github.com/naveenkrdy/26760ac5135deed6d0bb8902f6ceb6bd)
::
32-Bit support
::list{type="danger"}
- The AMD Vanilla patches do not support 32-bit instructions
::
Stability issues on many apps
::list{type="danger"}
- Audio-based apps are the most prone to issues, ie. Logic Pro.
- DaVinci Resolve has been known to have sporadic issues as well
::
::

## GPU Support
